Shodan
As we gather information on our target,
it is important to remember that
traditional websites are just one part of
the Internet.
Shodan is a search engine that crawls
devices connected to the Internet
including, but not limited to the World
Wide Web.
This includes the servers that run
websites
but also devices like routers and IoT
devices.
To put it another way, Google and other
search engines look for web server
content, while Shodan searches for
Internet-connected devices,
interacts with them, and displays
information about them.
Although Shodan is not required to
complete any material in this module
or the labs, it’s worth exploring a bit.
Let’s start by using Shodan to search for
hostname:megacorpone.com
In this case, Shodan lists the IPs,
services, and banner information.
All this is gathered passively without
interacting with the client’s web site.
This information gives us a snapshot of
our target’s Internet footprint.
For example, there are eight servers
running SSH,
and we can drill down on this to refine
our results by clicking on
SSH under Top Services.
Based on Shodan’s results, we know
exactly which version of OpenSSH
is running on each server.
If we click on an IP address, we can
retrieve a summary of the host.
We can view the ports, services,
and technologies used by the server on
this page.
Shodan will also reveal if there are any
published vulnerabilities
for any of the identified services or
technologies.
This information is invaluable when
determining where to start
when we move to active testing.